The Catholic Diocese of Ondo on Tuesday said 38 persons have so far been confirmed dead in the Sunday terrorists’ attack on St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo. The Diocesan Bishop, Jude Arogundade, disclosed this in an interview with journalists. Gunmen on Sunday attacked the church located on Owa-Luwa Street in Owo, the hometown of the State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, leaving many parishioners dead and several others injured. Arogundade however, said some families picked up corpses of their loved ones and those could not be accounted for by the diocese. He said, “People have been asking me about the figure of those who died. The figure that we can account for presently is 38. “But we know that many people were taken to private hospitals. Even some people came to take the bodies of their loved ones. We are trying to trace those people so that we can have a recount for all. “But in the catholic hospital, which is St. Louis Hospital in Owo, and the Federal Medical Centre in Owo, we have 38 bodies.” Meanwhile, Akeredolu said no fewer than 22 people were killed in the attack. He said the attack affected 80 people out of which 22 lost their lives, while 56 survivors are on admission at the Federal Medical Centre, Owo, St Louis Hospital, Owo and the Owo General Hospital as well as some other private hospitals. Akeredolu stated this on Tuesday during a statewide broadcast to the people of the state. He said, “The total number of people involved was 80. As at now, 56 are on admission, two discharged, while the death toll is 22. Efforts have been deepened to prevent further casualties. “The site, that is, St. Francis Catholic Church, Owaluwa, Owo presents a gory war-like scene. The Federal Medical Centre, Owo, the St. Louis Hospital, Owo, the General Hospital, Owo as well as some private hospitals in Owo were filled with the injured, most of who were in critical conditions. “The most unfortunate part is the lives of innocent children cut down in their prime and some severely injured by the mindless attackers. At Owo, the anger was palpable. The tension was at an abrasive level just as the urge for reprisals was high. Without doubt too, the ripple impact of this heinous act as well as the understandably angry reaction across the state could not have been different. “I urge our people to be calm but remain vigilant. Do not take the law into your own hands. Leave the rest for government to shoulder.”