The National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has unveiled a list of 18 chairmen and 11 deputies to head its sub-committees for the special convention slated for June 6. Felix Morka, the party’s national publicity secretary unveiled the list on Wednesday night. Among those to chair sub-committees are Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos State; Abubakar Malami, the attorney general of the federation; Rotimi Akeredolu, governor of Ondo State, among others.
The list contained the names of 17 governors, five ministers, deputy senate president and deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, among others. See the full list below: 1. Budget – H.E. Muhammad Yahaya, Governor of Gombe State Co-Chair: Minister of Finance, Hajiya Zainab Ahmed 2. Finance and Logistics – H.E. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Governor of Lagos State 3. Accreditation and Decoration – H.E. Prince Dapo Abiodun, Governor of Ogun State. 4. Security and Compliance – H.E. Rotimi Akeredolu, Governor of Ondo State Co-Chair: Gen. Abdulrahman Dambazau (retd.), former Minister of Interior 5. Election Planning – H.E. Atiku Bagudu, Governor of Kebbi State Co-Chair: H.E. Hope Uzodimma, Governor of Imo State 6. Transportation – H.E. Abdullahi Ganduje, Governor of Kano State Deputy: Ramatu Aliyu, Minister of State for the Federal Capital Territory 7. Accommodation – H.E. Babagana Zulum, Governor of Borno State Co-Chair: H.E. Gboyega Oyetola, Governor of Osun State 8. Media and Publicity – H.E. Abdullahi Sule, Governor of Nasarawa State 9. Medicals – Dr. Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour and Employment Co-Chair: Prof. Isaac Folorunso Adewole, former Minister of Health 10. Legal: Abubakar Malami SAN, Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice 11. Venue and Site Servicing: H.E. Bello Matawalle, Governor of Zamfara State Co-Chair: Mohammed Bello, Minister of the Federal Capital Territory 12. Election Appeal – H.E. Mai Mala Buni, Governor of Yobe State 13. Hospitality and Welfare – H.E. Simon Lalong, Governor of Plateau State Co-Chair: Hajiya Sadiya Farouq, Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development 14. Protocols – H.E. Aminu Masari, Governor of Katsina State 15. Digital Communications – H.E. AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, Governor of Kwara State 16. Pre-Convention/Management/ Rapporteur – H.E. Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, Governor of Kaduna State Deputy: Dame Pauline Tallen, Minister of Women Affairs 17. Presidential Screening Appeal – H.E. Abubakar Bello, Governor of Niger State Co-Chair: Rt. Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase, Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives 18. Accreditation of Diplomats – H.E. Ovie Omo-Agege, Deputy President of the Senate Co-Chair: Geoffrey Onyeama, Minister for Foreign Affairs 