The UK High Commission to Nigeria has expressed concerns over vote-buying in the Ekiti State governorship election, while demanding action against those found culpable in the act. The commission which made the demand in a statement on Monday, however, noted that there were commendable improvements in the conduct of the election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The commission also congratulated the state governor-elect, Mr. Biodun Oyebanji on his victory at the polls. “We congratulate the people of Ekiti State for their peaceful and democratic participation in the governorship election that was held on Saturday 18 June 2022. As the first major election conducted since the enactment of the Electoral Act 2022, we commend INEC, the security agencies, our civil society partners and all stakeholders for their collective effort in the successful conduct of the poll under the new legal framework,” the statement said. “Our team of observers on the ground noted commendable improvements in the electoral process including the timely opening of polls, better functioning of the BVAS devices for accrediting voters, and the transparent and efficient electronic transmission of polling unit results to INEC’s results viewing portal. “We are concerned about reports of vote buying during the election and call on the relevant authorities to hold any persons involved accountable. The buying and selling of votes has no place in a democracy. “We encourage INEC to reflect on other potential improvements to the electoral process ahead of general elections in 2023, especially the re-distribution and assignment of voters to newly established polling units to reduce queuing times, better awareness and implementation of electoral guidelines by INEC staff and improved accessibility at polling units to help with the participation of persons with disabilities. “We urge any party or individual who is dissatisfied with the process to seek redress in a peaceful manner and through the appropriate legal channels. “As Nigeria moves closer to the 2023 general elections, we encourage people to register and collect their PVCs and to participate actively in the political process. The UK will continue to assist INEC and our partners in their aspiration to support peaceful, credible and inclusive elections in Nigeria.”