Adebayo Obajemu  Nigeria’s First Lady, Aisha Buhari, Wednesday in Abuja conducted the decoration of her newly promoted Aide-De-Camp (ADC), Usman Shugaba, with his new rank of Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP). Mrs Buhari, flanked by the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali-Baba, admonished the promoted officer to ramp up his job performance in order to justify his new rank and the promotion. She described Shugaba as a highly committed and dogged officer who performed his task with a high sense of honesty and humility. Mrs Buhari congratulated Mr Shugaba on his elevation and urged him to take his promotion as a challenge to do more for the country.
On her Facebook page the First Lady wrote:
“I thank you for coming to support me to decorate one of my dogged staff, as an Assistant Commissioner of Police. Usman Shugaba is a highly committed Senior Officer in the Nigeria Police today.
“I wish you all the best in your new positions,” she said. In his remark, the IGP said that promotion in the Nigeria Police Force was an achievement that came through hard work and dedication to service. “When I received the recommendation of the promotion from the First Lady that the ADC had been performing his duty diligently with honesty and dedication. “I had no option than to put my own recommendation to the Police Service Commission for his elevation. Shugaba has today joined the league of senior officers in the Nigeria Police,” the IGP said. Mr Alkali-Baba described the Nigerian police as a reputable institution, which guaranteed service to humanity, and the protection of lives and property of the citizenry. He urged Shugaba to remain resolute in his new rank, and to continue doing a good job. “By this promotion, you will be taken to the category of decision-making process and you are to command not less than 1000 officers and men at any point in time. “So, I want to congratulate Shugaba for reaching this far in his chosen career in the Nigeria Police Force,” he said. According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Mr Shugaba was born in 1982 and joined the Nigeria Police Force in 2002. Mr Shugaba had served in the Police Command in various states, including as ADC to former IGP Mohammed Abubakar and Kogi Governor Yahaya Bello, among others. (With agency report)