Rabiu Kwankwaso presidential candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), has said the country’s ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the main opposition party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) have failed woefully and should not be voted into office in 2023. According to Kwankwaso who was a PDP governor for eight years, the two parties had since 1999 failed in all sectors and could not bring succour to Nigerians. He bemoaned the plight of passengers plying the Ado – Akure Road linking the capital cities of Ondo and Ekiti states. The former Kano State Governor, who spoke in Ado Ekiti on Saturday during a consultation visit to the state on his presidential bid, said the disaster was lurking around in the country in view of the alleged incompetence of the APC government in the areas of security and economy. “The only way to avert that disaster is for Nigerians to go and sell the ideas of the NNPP, which is a progressive party, and vote for the party come 2023,” he said. “We have seen the performance of the APC and the PDP and all of us believe that they have failed the country woefully and nobody should expect anything from them again. These people in the two parties have failed and failed woefully, they have nothing to offer. “Look at the road from Akure to Ado-Ekiti, it is in a very terrible and deplorable situation. You go around the country’s cities, Abuja, and other areas, you hardly see anything happening, poverty is at the highest level in this country, insecurity is also at its peak and we can’t continue like that, because the way we are going now is one way to disaster in the country.” Kwankwaso denied insinuations that his party would team up with the PDP, saying, “We have candidates across board in the NNPP ahead of the 2023 elections, so you will expect me to leave and join others in the PDP? “It is not going to happen. I was a foundation member of the two major parties and they have nothing to offer again, that is why I left them and I can’t go back,” he said. 