Three military personnel collapsed on Monday, at the Eagle Square during the military parade to mark the 2022  June 12 Democracy Day . The collapsed officers were believed to be members of the different units of the military, who had been on their feet hours before the commencement of the event. The parade observed by President Muhammadu Buhari, was already on when suddenly there was commotion behind one of the parties as some security and medical personnel were seen scrambling stretchers to move those who had collapsed for urgent medical attention. They were rushed to the tents provided at the square for medical personnel where physicians successfully resuscitated them. It was not clear whether they were able to return to their duty beats for the continuation of their duties. On arrival, President Muhammadu Buhari inspected the parade immediately and was followed by military/police march past in slow and quick time. The event also involved a combat march display by the Nigerian Army Women Corps as well as the combined silent drill display by the Armed Forces and Police. It further featured a Democracy Day playlet, cultural troupe display, showcasing Nigeria moving forward from the six geo-political zones. Also on display were the combined band/silent drill display by the armed forces and advance in review order. President Buhari also signed the anniversary register, followed by the parade commander leading three hearty cheers. Besides the President, who arrived the Eagle Square around 10:12am, other dignitaries who graced the event were former President Goodluck Jonathan and the All Progressives Congress’ (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu Also in attendance were the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan; Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase; the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad; and the Chairman of the APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. Others were the National Security Adviser, Major-General Babagana Monguno (rtd); the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor; service chiefs, Ministers, members of the diplomatic corps, captains of industry, as well as other Nigerians from all walks of life, including students. Also at the ceremony was a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Ambassador, Babagana Kingibe, who was the running mate to the presumed winner of the June 12, 1993 presidential election, Aare M.KO Abiola. Kingibe was introduced as former Vice President and requested to join in a group photograph with President Buhari, Jonathan, Lawan; Gbajabiamila; Tanko, and the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Abdullahi Adamu.