Police in Lagos has recovered the body of Ayanwole Oluwabamise, a 22-year-old fashion designer who went missing after boarding a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) at Chevron, Lekki area of the state. The Lagos police command recovered the body after it was alerted by residents in Lagos-Island axis that a corpse was abandoned in the area. The body was said to have been recovered by the policemen attached to Ebute Ero Police Station and has been deposited at the mortuary within the axis. There had been effort to trace whereabouts Oluwabamise who went missing after boarding BRT on February 26. On Sunday, Lagos State said it has arrested two suspects in connection with the incident. Oluwabamise was said to have boarded the bus from Chevron Bus Stop to Oshodi around 7pm and later sent distress message to her friend when she felt uncomfortable in the vehicle. She was said to have asked her friend to pray for her and sent the vehicle details to the friend as she complained about the behaviour of the driver. Oluwabamise also gave her friends other details, including the number of persons in the said bus and she was advised by the friend to alight at Oworonsoki instead of continuing to Oshodi in that circumstance. But that was the last her family and friends heard from her as she never got to her destination and the driver had also disappeared since then. Giving update on the case on Sunday, Lagos police spokesman, CSP Adekunle Ajisebutu, said the suspects in custody were assisting investigation. “As soon as the report got to the police, investigation into the circumstances surrounding the disappearance of the lady was immediately initiated,” he said. “To ensure a speedy and diligent investigation, the Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi, immediately directed the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), Panti to take over the case. “In the course of ongoing investigation, two suspects have been arrested and are currently helping in our investigation. “While assuring that police detectives will continue to work assiduously to find the missing lady and bring her abductors to justice, the command wishes to appeal to anyone with useful information that could help in our investigation to promptly give it to us for further necessary actions. “Suspect who hails from Moba L.G.A. in Ekiti State, is about 5 feet plus tall, dark in complexion and speaks Yoruba and English languages well. “This isolated incident notwithstanding, the Police Command is committed to protecting lives and properties of all residents of the state at all times.”