The government of Lagos State has announced closure of all schools run by Chrisland Schools in the state over the rape of a 10-year-old female student of the school. The student was raped during a Dubai trip organised by the school, as captured in a video, an incident that has continued to generate outrage. The girl’s mother had in a video alleged that the school attempted to cover up the incident. Reacting to the development in a statement on Monday, the Lagos State government said the sexual abuse of the minor was being investigated. The government in the statement shared by Jubril A. Gawat, @Mr_JAGs, media aide to Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of the state, announced closure of the schools pending the outcome of investigations. “The attention of the Lagos State Government has been drawn to the alleged sexual violence case involving students of Chrisland Schools which occurred in Dubai, United Arab Emirates,” the statement said. “It is pertinent to note that all allegations are being investigated by the relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies, including Ministry of Education, Office of Education Quality Assurance, Ministry of Youth and Social Development, Ministry of Justice and the Lagos State Domestic & Sexual Violence Agency, whilst the criminal allegations have been escalated to the Commissioner of Police. “In view of the allegations, we are committed to ensuring that adequate medical and pscyho social support is provided. “This is to reassure members of the public of the State Government’s commitment to safety and child protection, especially in ensuring that all child-centered institutions within the state, formulate and implement policies and systems that are compliant with the Executive Order (NO.EO/AA08 of 2016), Lagos State Safeguarding and Child Protection Program. “We also use this medium to remind the general public that any person who engages in any visual depiction of sexually explicit conduct involving a child, commits an offence and is liable to custodial sentence of fourteen (14) years. “This includes “producing, distributing, receiving, or possessing an image of child pornography”. “In the meantime, all Chrisland Schools within Lagos State are hereby closed, pending further investigations.”