Intersection plagued with crowd Happy, hustling, angry, hungry, mobbing Traffic jams like unruly parking lot. Bodies move, disturbed as bees in hives. Melting pot of tribes Sometimes frightening, nightmarish You never know when you are coming home Without car or your turn to lose hand to thieves Who want watch, bangles, or bracelet But can’t wait to unleash. It used to be when they rob They ask for the money Got it from So and so Or … Bank They made husband watch the rape Sometimes they ask for compliment No choice here. Brutal Hard to beat Lagos. I rise with crows to get to work on time But now I stand Wait, wait, and wait At last a ramshackle to suck us up A crowd at the door, a brawl, chaos Like a log in angry stream they haul me in My right shoe dangles. Slips Lost. Jam-packed. Behind, he leaves no room This Jack Pressing so hard, I shift away from his bulge I quit the fight. The braves raise rancor Shame. The wish to disappear. Both. Trapped on this hot day To cool you had a drink for the road They bug you, hawkers in their dozens “Fine toothbrush!” “Wall clock!” “Buy antenna!” “Oga, crackers, Tuc or Ritz?” “Cold ice-water, Or na Coke you want?” You are drenched in sweats from head to undies Disgusted. Now you are pressed, really need to go Not alone, in front behind the wheels of Molue He alights, sprays the tire as you watch Jumps in relieved while his foaming Streams between tires. You pass skyscrapers, checkered glass, Hawker-lined overpass To mainland bridge You withdraw to land, Join comic palm-wine club At nature-canopied groove Palm bleeds white In the keg hung at its throat. Sieve a gulp with your whiskers Sort out the latest from the clamor And get drunk on voices. Sunny Lagos is favored yet Could be most exciting city Shine of sun amiable from cloudless sky Warms up white sands of Bar Beach. Restless surf of Atlantic Ocean Caressed incessantly peopled shore Worry-free laughter rings out from bubbling blue Dotted black and brown Shrieks from bewildered children Losing hold on sweeping surf Sand-shoes seized by breakers. Now, let’s sit at Marina Ankle-deep, cool water stroking tired feet. Let’s watch cargo ships queue in lagoon Anxious to discharge. Let’s observe yacht-men cruising past Unmindful of the great floaters Let’s study forbearance from lonely fishermen paddling Let’s smile as daylight dives under water Let’s go home, our invisible companion, tautness Cast below sea-level. Our ride home, renewed ardor. By Doyin Ogunbadejo Isiaka