By Sunday Oguntuyi, Osogbo In continuation of his consultation tour/visits to traditional rulers and eminent Nigerians across the country, the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on Thursday paid homage to the reverred Yoruba traditional ruler and Imperial Majesty, Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi in Ile-Ife. The Lagos State former Governor commended the citizens and residents of Osun for their unflinching support and cooperation with the Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, in the last three years. This is even as Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Owa Obokun Adimula of Ijesaland, Oba Gabriel Adekunle Aromolaran, Orangun of Ila, Oba Abdul-Wahab Oyedotun and Ajero of Ijero Kingdom, Oba Joseph Adebayo Adewole, showered encomiums on Asiwaju and threw their weights behind his presidential ambition. The traditional rulers endorsed the Lagos-born politician for President, saying, “you have done so much for humanity, it is a pay back time for Nigerians to elect you.” The APC National Leader had in the last few weeks begun his consultation visits to traditional rulers and eminent Nigerians to formally inform them of his presidential ambition and receive their blessings in that regard. The train of the APC Presidential Aspirant moved to Ile-Ife and Ilesa where he was given a tumultuous welcome and was warmly received by the leaders and members of the ruling party in the State, led by Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. Speaking at the Ooni’s palace, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu commended the traditional rulers for their unflinching cooperation and support for national integration, unity and peaceful cohesion, just as he declared his ambition to contest for the President. He said the visit was to intimate the monarchs in particular and Nigerians in general of his ambition to run for presidential election, an ambition he described ‘as timely and prompt’. “I thank you all. I specifically thank the traditional rulers here present, I came here to seek for your prayers. I am here for your support and cooperation. You have known my intention already. You have known what I am aspiring for; all I need is your prayers. “I have been supporting the people here and there. We have moved all over the country for one candidate or the other especially in 2013 where we campaigned for President Muhammadu Buhari after his emergence, we equally supported him in 2019. “As you all know, what the Constitution says is just two terms for a president after which another person succeeds him. That is what we are going round the country to let our people know that I am ready to succeed the incumbent President after the expiration of his second term. “As you all know, what we are doing is to succeed him and I want to vie for President. I want to succeed Buhari and I can’t do it alone without your support. I want your continued support. It is our belief that once Ooni, Orangun, Awujale, Alake, Owa, among others speak, it becomes ours. With your support, it will come to pass. “I am determined, I am prepared and I am ready for it. God that put our traditional rulers in their various thrones will not forsake us. He will put us there. I want to be President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. I want your continued prayers,” Asiwaju added. The APC National Leader who used the occasion of his visit to thank the people of Osun, particularly the leaders and members of the APC for their unalloyed support and cooperation with the Governor and the party over the years, said the emergence of Governor Oyetola at the recently-concluded party’s primaries, was an indication of their love for his government and the ruling party. He lauded the traditional rulers and residents for standing firmly and solidly behind the progressive government since its return to the State as demonstrated in their peaceful conduct in the just-concluded primary election of the party. “I want to use this opportunity to thank you for nominating our Governor to re-contest. Though there were intimidation here and there before the primary, at the end of it, there was light at the end of the tunnel. So, I thank you particularly for standing by us, especially our royal fathers. I thank you for not putting our party to shame”, he added. While imploring Nigerians to continue to tow the path of unity, love, peace, greatness, togetherness and prosperity, Asiwaju Tinubu said his determination to run for presidential election was anchored on the need to consolidate on the modest achievements of President Buhari and set the nation to path of national integration and cohesion. He tasked the citizens, particularly youths who have been aspiring to become President to champion the virtues of character, capacity, tolerance, endurance, consistency, integrity, diligence and ability to see good things and take leadership position to lead and sustain the country on the path of greatness. In their separate remarks in their palaces, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, and Owa Obokun Adimula of Ijesaland, Oba Gabriel Adekunle Aromolaran, described Asiwaju as the pride of Yoruba race whose great impacts in the lives of humanity cannot be quantified. The duo declared their readiness to support Asiwaju’s ambition, saying he has paid his dues to be duly rewarded. “You have done so much for humanity to be elected President. You have made so many people in different capacities. You have done so well as a distinguished Nigerian. God has blessed you and you have used every stratum of your opportunity to advance humanity and develop capacity for generations. We are very happy to receive you today. “You are our pride. You are our star. You are our moon. You are a rare gem at the moment and we pray God to continue to strengthen you and imbue you with all that will work for you to succeed”, Ooni said. Owa, on his part, said Asiwaju Tinubu remains a true democrat that the nation needs at the moment in view of his noble contributions to national growth and development. In his brief remarks, the Governor of Osun, Adegboyega Oyetola expressed gratitude to the people of the State, particularly the APC loyalists for renewing their confidence in his Administration as demonstrated in the last primary election. He expressed confidence in the ability, capacity and competence of Asiwaju to take the nation to promised land.