Influential Catholic priest, Rev Fr. Ejike Mbaka, has showered blessings on Barth Nnaji, former minister of power and one of the aspirants for the governorship of Enugu State. Mbaka gave the blessing when Nnaji celebrated mass at the Adoration ground officiated by the priest in Emene, on Sunday. The fiery priest prayed God to fulfill Nnaji’s desires and to guide Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi in the decision of who to settle for as his preferred successor, while noting that Nnaji as an industrialist and a power generator who has the annoting of God in his endeavor. Mbaka said: “He (Bart Nnaji) is one of the governorship aspirants in Enugu and he has come to be with us. He is a great son of Wawa, a great man in the land of Umuode, a power generator. It will be well with you. My prayer for you is that the will of God be done. “One of my children will become the Governor after Gburugburu ( Governor Ugwuanyi). We are also prayering for Gburugburu so that God will give him the wisdom, the grace, the favour to select a man after God’s own heart. That is my prayer for him in Jesus name. “The person of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi is in tandem with peace. There may not be too much flyovers in Enugu but there is peace. By midnight you see the people of Enugu walking about the streets fearlessly without security. The white men that came here the other day assessed it and I thank God for the good people of Enugu State that supported him to achieve it. The youths of Enugu, it shall be well with you. “So, that is why I am praying for Gburugburu so that he will not make a mistake because one single mistake will put people in trouble. None of the politicians who are aspiring to be governor will expose his inner will. What you see are people who are not real. None of them is saying things from their heart, but we are waiting. Anyone they bring we will work for the people. If he wants peace, we will give him peace, if he wants to toy with the poor, we will chase him out of the seat. “But we are praying so that God will give us someone who is sane, a tested and trusted personality, a competent hand, a father, a lover, an industrialist, a visionary, a godly person, a down to earth humble personality. We need a compassionate, empathic and sympathetic personality. Someone with a good heart and a good person. “We don’t need terrorism in this state. We don’t want to hear that this one is in this cult while the other person is in another cult and then a cult war will start. They are all our children but we need a father to be governor so he will bring the the entire Enugu together. Anyone who enters Enugu will know that he has entered a land of peace. “Because our people can survive even if you don’t help them. My prayer is that he selects a man of peace, a good man. I am not recommending anyone to him but I am praying that God puts a good man into his heart.” 