By Sunday Oguntuyi, Osogbo Pensioners in Osun State have lamented the non-committal of their pension areas by Gboyega Oyetola-led administration, noting that they are presently facing starvation. This was asserted by Mrs Ronke Aderibigbe, the Coordinator of Nigeria Union of Pensioners, Women’s Wing, Osun State chapter during a prayer session organised by the wing in Osogbo on Thursday. According to her, “we are facing a lot of problems, challenges on our pensions in Osun. We are facing a lot of problems. We are facing a lot of challenges in Osun State as regards our entitlements. “For instance some pensioners who retired in 2008/09 are yet to be renumerated. Gratuity is not forthcoming, 33% is not forthcoming, we are on half salary, half pension or quarter pension. “We now notice that our efforts to meet Governor Oyetola have been proving futile. It is like an exercise in futility. “Our management, the NUP (Nigeria Union of Pensioners) under the Chairmanship of Alhaji Abdulganiyu and the Secretary, Comrade Bandele Aina, they have done all necessary things to meet with the Governor. We don’t know our sins to Governor Oyetola. Since we have sought his face and he has refused to look at our faces, we know God will answer our prayers. “We have written so many letters (but) nothing is forthcoming. With all our struggles, Governor Gboyega Oyetola is not doing anything. He has rubbished us. He has pushed us to the walls. And we feel there is no more to do than to pray. “The SSG is there. The Chief of Staff is there; they cannot say they don’t know what is happening just as Governor Oyetola is claiming he did not know what is happening. After all he (Oyetola) worked with Governor Aregbesola (Former Governor of the state, now Minister of Interior) “Pensioners are dying. Oyetola has refused to pay. He has refused to give us our entitlements. We are dying because there is no money to treat ourselves. There are elders amongst us who have terminal ailments.” She added that the situation has forced some pensioners to be commercial motorcycle riders, while their children, take up odd jobs. She alleged that the Government officials have found ‘a cabal’ and only pay their family members and relatives. Conclusively, she begged Oyetola to attend to address their grievances before the gubernatorial election stipulated for July 16, 2022.